---
layout: post
title: "Towards the Thousandth CubeSat: A Statistical Overview"
byline: Villela, Thyrso
---
Website: http://web.a.ebscohost.com/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=2d896650-d89f-4c67-b1c0-a606fd2a5136%40sdc-v-sessmgr03

Year: 2019

Summary of Paper: The CubeSat is an integral part of our project and this paper puts its statistics into review. In 2018 the program approached 1000 launches with 855 launched since May 31st. Moreover, it demonstrates how the initiatives and intentions shifted over time with the program beginning with education initiatives then technology development and now remote sensing. 

Opportunity: The paper also illustrates the main CubeSat launchers: PSLV, Antares, and Atlas 5 make over 50% of launches. The quantity and accessibility to get involved is incredible. 

Challenge: Sometime very notable from the paper is the failure rate of CubeSats, as a consequence more companies have popped up and focus on manufacturing specific components for the system leading to a more recent success rate. Also, characterized as "infant mortality" (yeah weird), was the main cause for low success rate, which means as soon as the systems entered the space environment they stopped functioning. 

Action: There seems to have been a drop in launching numbers in 2015 and 2016, but in 2017 the growth trend was recovered. If the launch numbers continue to follow the same tendency, over one thousand CubeSats are expected to launch every year by 2021. 

Resolution: In 2018 the number of CubeSats launched increased exponentially, the advantage is that more and more companies and institutions can access to rapidly produce space systems. However, with the increased number of launches, accessibility becomes easier, especially withy he use of COTS and microelectronics. 

Future/Impact: In the context of our own research, this is why we can use a CubeSat for our system. It simply facilitates the process and opens up an array of opportunities. Moreover, it is neat to see how involved Antares is because it is the company we plan to use. 

Tags: CubeSat, Statistics