---
layout: post
title: "Feasibility Study for Hypersonic Flight Test Using a Reusable Hybrid Rocket Motor"
byline: Paige Nardozzo
---
Year: 2019

Link to Paper: https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/10.2514/6.2019-3838

Summary of Paper: This paper was written in collaboration with our mentor Sarah Popkins. It discusses feasibility and challenges of developing a Hybrid Rocket. It includes a ground test and the resulting scale of feasibility for the project. 

Opportunity: Hybrid rocket motors are composed of liquid and a solid state gas. As a background: solid fuel tanks will burn completely until the fuel has be consumed, while a liquid fuel is controlled by the input of its reactants allowing for a more controlled burning. Though, liquid state tend to be much more expensive and difficult to program. Hybrid rockets provides the perfect opportunity to combine the tank types, considering better performance and safety.

Challenge: One of the main obstacles the project faced was being able to reload the fuel, because it would overheat it would have to be cooled on ground. Moreover, they faced challenges in applying liquid nitrous up to the injector face to expand the gas. 

Action: They analysis resolved that injector design had certain limitations that did accommodate to the needs of the project. This would require a more elaborate design that was not readily supplied. 

Resolution: Overall, the experiment revealed the full-scale design and feasibility of the hybrid rocket motor. 

Future/Impact: Similar to hitchhiker it would allow for multiple testing iterations at a lower cost. Though it also far more safe and has the opportunity for creating better flight performance. For example, in the situation that something goes wrong on a flight, the liquid state fuel can be used to stop the ignition of the solid state fuel. It also allows for reusable rockets. 

Tags: Aerodynamics, hybrid, reusable rockets
