---
layout: post
title: "Comparison of CFD predictions with shuttle global flight thermal imagery and discrete surface measurements"
byline: William A. Wood and William L. Kleb
---
Year: 2010
Link to Paper: https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100003050.pdf

Summary of Paper: As a lot of difficult problems arise in Aerodynamics it is very useful to use computational models to describe certain relationships. This also eliminates the need for very costly and limited on ground testing. Wood and Kleb aim to investigate the reliability of certain CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics) models specifically DPLR and LAURA software. This was possible because of the Surface temperature measurements from the STS-119 boundary-layer transition experiment on the space shuttle orbiter Discovery.

Opportunity: The authors provide an understanding of what assumptions can be made in the used of CFD models and how closely they relate to surface temperature measurements. To illustrate, the average error between the CFD and surface temperature measurements was never larger than 5%.

Challenge: It appeared that a large number of thermocouples were unsuccessful in collecting useful data. Moreover, it was found that above Mach numbers greater than 11 trends begin to diverge and error is above 5% in a high estimate. 

Action: The Hypersonic Thermodynamic Infrared Measurement (HYTHIRM) team was able to capture thermal images of the STS-119 flight, this provided a verification of the CFD models and surface measurements. This also provided good agreement on the fuselage acreage, lending credence to the statistical comparisons versus the thermocouple data.

Resolution: Ultimately the verification provides a sensible understanding of the actual conditions taking place during the flight. Moreover, it gives engineers the ability to make good assumptions that will better predict the flight conditions.

Future/Impact: A more recent approach to the problem has been BOLT, which is a project that is being done here at the APL. The experiment uses a sounding rocket with several hundred sensors measuring surface conditions. 

Tags: Aerospace, hypersonic, heat transfer