---
layout: post
title: "Climatic Impacts of Wind Power"
byline: Lee M. Miller
---
Year: 2018

Summary of Paper: With the impending search for Renewable Energy solution, Miller and his team at Harvard investigates the application of Wind Power. He finds that wind power would warm the US surface by 0.24°C by redistributing heat in the boundary layer. 

Opportunity: Miller reconsiders the implementation of wind energy, the trade offs. The study uses general circulation models. It states that other studies tend to use idealized or unrealistic distributions of turbines installed at unrealistic scales. Miller focusses on assessing wind power's climate impact per unit energy generation.

Challenge: The most significant challenge is to properly model used non idealize and unrealistic distributions of turbines installed at unrealistic scales. Moreover, choosing the modeling framework is what ultimately decides the outcome and can ultimately sway the result of the study.

Action: They use the WRF v3.3.1 high resolution regional model with a domain that encompasses the Continental US. The model is run for a full year using prescribed boundary conditions, however the disadvantage is that it will underestimate global-scale climatic response. 

Resolution: The paper resolves that there would be increase of temperature of 0.24°C. 

Future/Impact: In further exploring the paper's method of modeling the heating effects, the modeling technique has been frequently represented as providing an overestimation of temperatures. Moreover, their paper critiques the unrealistic scale of past experimentation, however their evaluation is equally unrealistic. Overall, it is in interesting observation, but it should be a more holistic study possibly considering more than just the US and modeling it over a longer period, as it should ultimately stabilize. Finally, wind is a MUCH better solution than fossil fuels.

Tags: Wind turbines, renewable, modelling. 
