---
layout: post
title: "Understanding public responses to offshore wind power"
byline: Haggett, Claire
---
Website: www.elsevier.com/locate/enpol

Year: 2010

Summary of Paper: This paper discusses public responses to offshore wind power. The main themes explored are: visual impact, local area, tangible benefits, developers, and the decision making process.

Opportunity: Policy makers and wind energy professionals need to take into consideration public opinion and acceptance. A comparison of Colwyn Bay and Llandudno is very clear in showing that the implementation of turbines highly depends on the residents view of the place. In the case of Colwyn Bay, the majority feel that it is an unappealing place and wind turbines will bring a positive industrialization, while Llandudno has a natural visual appeal suggesting that any wind farm will destroy this. 

Challenge: Interestingly it is revealed from another paper, that public opinion is that offshore wind sites are a problem free alternative to onshore sites. There is also the problem (written in quotes in the paper) of public protests. There is also commonly used acronym in the area called NIMBY, which means not-in-my-backyard. In general, it's things people want as institutions but simply do not want to be the ones realizing the implications. 

Action: Overall, the paper attempts to realize why there exist opposition to wind turbine farms. It presents information collected from onshore sites and compares it newly produced information from offshore sites that are being developed. In this discussion it explains that NIMPY is not a good enough generalization of reasons for objection to wind turbine sites. 

Resolution: This research recognizes there is a potential for conflict, and the next step is to create a dialogue around the subject of climate change. Discussing the benefits or non benefits and realizing what can be done to resolve any animosity.

Future/Impact: Energy is of great importance to the world, fossil fuels are unsustainable, and our planet is slowly deteriorating. What will it take bring everyone on board?

Tags: Energy, wind, policy