---
layout: post
title: "Drag Deorbit Device: A New Standard Reentry Actuator for CubeSats"
byline: Guglielmo, David 
---
Website: 

Year: 2019

Summary of Paper: The goal of this design is to minimize the amount of debris in orbital pathways. The expected amount of time that a 12U Cubesat will take to de orbit is 312 years. This is a lot of time and with the rise of space programs it important that there is no debris putting projects in danger. 

Opportunity: The D3 device will allow for a 12U Cubesat on a circular orbit to reenter in 25 years. Moreover, the technology is relatively simply and can deplored nd retracted as needed improving stability. Also the device will completely disintegrate upon reentry creating no further debris.  

Challenge: Various challenges include: bringing the Cubesat out of a tumbling state, reentry location uncertainty, and properly determining the drag. Though the overall challenge that is being approached is that there exist too much debris in orbit. 

Action: To control the Cubesat in its tumbling state, magnetorquers use the B-dot detumble law to stabilize the system. Also to account for the uncertainty in where the satellite will land, a Monte Carlo method is used to analyze any possible disturbances that could occur. Though, in general the Cubesat will land in an uninhabited zone of the Pacific Ocean. 

Resolution: Overall, the D3 device is great for insuring that we can continue to do CubeSat launches while also limiting our contribution to space debris and preventing any harm to active missions. 

Future/Impact: CubeSats have become a popular method to access space and will only continue to grow therefore we need to ensure that it operates in the most safe and forward thinking way.

Tags: CubeSat, payload, deorbit