---
layout: post
title: "A Tutorial on the Dynamics and Control of Wind Turbines and Wind Farms"
byline: Pao, Lucy Y.
---
Website: 

Year: 2009

Summary of Paper: This paper focuses describing turbine control systems and control loops. The goal is that they believe there can be significance performance improvements made in the generator torque and blade pitch control systems. Some of the concerns is with the shear size of the wind turbine, exposing it to uncertain conditions. 

Opportunity: Like most energy producing systems, they are not perfect. Most gas compressors can only get up to 30% efficiency, while a wind turbine has a limit named the Betz constant (59% of the power of the wind). This is the max power possible, therefore everything should be done to bring us closer to that efficiency. For this reason the analysis of the control systems is done. 

Challenge: Today’s larger turbines are often hit with turbulent structures, when smaller than the rotor cause more damage than those larger than the rotor. This causes fatigue and extreme loading issues causing excessive damage. 

Action: Various sensors are used on the wind turbine: anemometer and a wind vane located on top of the nacelle, to measure wind speed and direction. Moreover, there are various actuators in place: yaw motor 1deg/s, generator, and a pitch motor. The generator can command a certain torque (how does it do that?). The pitch motor will turn the blades to respond to to differential loads. 

Resolution: More advanced modeling via system identification techniques and a number of advanced control approaches should be explored to reduce the cost of wind energy. Some systems include lidar for the detection of wind measurements. By enabling this clean renewable energy source to provide and reliably meet the world’s electricity needs.

Future/Impact: By enabling this clean renewable energy source to provide and reliably meet the world’s electricity needs. Facilitating the contraction and implementation of wind turbines is absolutely necessary in order to ensure that it stands a chance at replacing fossil fuels. 

Tags: Wind, turbines, control, renewable.