---
layout: post
title: "Aerodynamic Characteristics of Blunt Bodies"
byline: Nichols, James O.
---
Website: https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/19650003700.pdf

Year: 1964

Summary of Paper: Nichols paper summarizes research/results of coefficients of drag at various cone angles and designs. The research specifically focuses on the normal force coefficient, center of pressure at zero attack angle, and the racial force coefficient at a zero angle of attack. 

Opportunity: The paper provides the opportunity to validate our various drag coefficient values. Moreover, it provides values at various mach numbers. However, in considering the usefulness of the numbers, it is hard to directly compare to our own calculations because 

Challenge: The primary challenge is to calculate drag coefficient values at various mach and compare to values that can be computed with Newtonian Flow. For this reason, we will see values computed to a line that provides previously calculated newtonian. Moreover, the paper generally summarizes the effects of varying the geometry.

Action: Actively relating the research to our own, Figure 4. Variation of normal force coefficient slope with Mach Number-spherically blunted cones, gives a great estimate/comparison. The most satisfying result is that our values compare at the same magnitude of one hundredth. Though, again it is important to note that we did not use a spherically blunted cone but it is sufficient enough to provide a sanity check. 

Resolution: Some of the main points are: linearity of normal force coefficient versus angle of attack decreases with increasing bluntness, agreeability of pointed cone data with pointed cone theory, and modified newtonian follows the same trend as the calculated data but cannot be considered absolute.

Future/Impact: As for implications, the paper has been really in providing a sanity check for our research. Moreover we had originally viewed the paper while having done our initial computations of drag coefficients and had realized that we were not getting proper values. However, with our more accurate and dependable values, our data more accurately correponds to what was found in the paper.

Tags: Drag, hypersonic.
