---
layout: post
title: "Charts adapted from Van Driest's turbulent flat-plate theory for determining values of turbulent aerodynamics friction and heat-transfer coefficients"
byline: Lee, Dorothy B.
---
Website: 

Year: 1956

Summary of Paper: We cannot compute Van Driest's directly and this paper looks to estimate theoretical values with a modified method by simplifying the calculation of local skin friction. This has led to forming values for heat transfer coefficients in the form of the Stanton number. Moreover, this method can be solved at mach 1 to 12, temperature ratios .2 to 6, and reynolds number .2*10^6 to 200*10^6.

Opportunity: This allows the Langley site to calculate is skin temperatures with the most convenient methods for turbulent theories. It does this and presents plots for interpolation. 

Challenge: This paper is certainly an older one, it's interesting to note that their "computer" is punched-tape digital computer and "several" iterations of the Van Driest function was exactly 11. So in analysis and hopefully application to my own calculations I feel that it will be quite inaccurate, however I need something simple enough to get a better understanding. 

Action: Using Van Driest with the Von Karman similarity law, we can find the value for the coefficient of friction at free-stream conditions Eq. 1. Using the Cf value we can then find the Stanton number to determine the heat transfer coefficient. Finally, using the straight line relationship of Cf against R using log-log plot. 

Resolution: By neglecting M, the max error is in (k) the correction factor is plus or minus 0.75 percent. Ultimately, the plots show how the various conditions vary. Specifically comparing mach, reynolds, and temperature ratios.

Future/Impact: As for implications, we are able to see a very good simplification of finding the coefficient of friction as well as tables of comparable values.

Tags: Skin friction, hypersonic.