---
layout: post
title: "Commercial GPS in the Stratosphere:Cell Phone GPS Receiver Performance on aHigh Altitude Weather Balloon"
byline: Carroll, Jonathan
---
Website: 

Year: 2010

Summary of Paper: This paper is ultimately a test of concept. Very simply, it uses a weather balloon to take a commercially available GPS system to very high altitudes.

Opportunity: Because of the constraints and regulations instituted by ITAR currently  prohibits  GPS  receivers  in commercial   products   from   producing   navigation   data above  60,000  ft  (18.3  km)  while  traveling  at  speeds greater than 1,000 knots (1852 km/h). Therefore, very little is know on how these products may produce information at these more extreme conditions. Moreover, the applications are very useful in areas such as CubeSat which makes use of commercially available products. 

Challenge: I did not initially consider that the below freezing temperatures would be a problem, however this was combatted by placing a chemical heat pack below the lithium battery to keep it adequately heated. Ultimately, the biggest challenge was properly insulating the payload from the extreme cold, this also met keeping the camera at the proper temperature. 

Action: To insure that the payload would properly work three important test were done: power  consumption  and  payload  impact  survivability. Battery tests were done at varying temperatures and at different signal capacities, this is said to drain the battery excessively. 

Resolution: The research resulted in showing the overwhelming capability of smart phones. And they keep getting better! It also demonstrated that horizontal velocity had little change, though vertical cause a jump in position accuracy. 

Future/Impact: The content of this research paper is very useful in understanding the simplicity of an experiment that can provide a lot of valuable information. With respect to our own project, this helpful in emphasizing the complexity imposed by extreme temperatures.

Tags: CubeSat, payload, heating, COTS