---
layout: post
title: "Conjugate Heat-Transfer Analysis for Hypersonic Flow over Finite Thickness Flat Plate"
byline: Oppattaiyamath, Girish
---
Website: 

Year: 1956

Summary of Paper: Conjugate heat transfer can be used to do heat transfer analysis and solve the energy equation for solid and fluid domains. Which can be successfully implemented for designing engineering systems or subsystems.

Opportunity: Conjugate heat-transfer analysis has been used by few researchers in compressible flow regime for supersonic or hypersonic applications like thermal protection system design. 

Challenge: Observing temperature, for the freestream conditions: heat-transfer measurement experiments are conducted to obtain similar temperature trace using flush-mounted thermal sensors. Temperature rises within the simulation duration as well as a higher rate of temperature increase with increase in freestream Mach number, ultimately meaning that there is a higher heat flux. 

Action: CHT solver is developed and validated successfully using the results obtained for different wall thermal conductivity condition for the wall material.

Resolution: Temperature increases with decrease in wall thermal conductivity. However, the wall heat flux is seen to be unchanged for all practical materials for the simulation duration of 1 ms. Therefor the isothermal assumption is goof for all materials when being tested at short periods of time. 

Future/Impact: As for implications, the research provides an isight on the type of materials than can be used in certain assumptions. Moreover, introduces certain practicality to the experiment. 

Tags: Thermal conductivity, hypersonic.