---
layout: post
title: "CIRCUIT Summer Program: A Computational Neuroscience Outreach Experience for High-Achieving Undergraduates via Sponsored Research"
byline: Marysol Encarnacion
---
Year: 2018

Link to Paper: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8340503

Summary of Paper: CIRCUIT is a program meant to target high achieving students that might have not had the opportunity to do ground breaking research otherwise. The paper outlines the mission and implementation of the program and ultimately the results that it produced.

Opportunity: Learning-for-Use (LfU) and the Affinity Research Group (ARG) model provide a successful implementation in to various academic settings. Though these programs lack integration in computational neuroscience. Leadership in the program will also contribute great mentorship to all the participating students.

Challenge: The program is challenged with providing students with three primary goals: learning, ground trotting, and independent. Each of these are interconnected and necessary for the other to function. Ultimately, this brings students to the right playing field. 

Action: Match the need of large-scale government projects to the needs of underrepresented students in STEM. Students would be selected to participate in the ten week program in connectomics research that would provided them with the opportunity to grow their research skills.

Resolution: The model was implemented at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory and undergraduate students were recruited from the Johns Hopkins University. Ultimately the program demonstrates an increase knowledge and interest in computer science in neuroscience. Overall, CIRCUIT showed the positive impact of having students work in groups and the greatness of fostering young and ambitious minds.

Future/Impact: The CIRCUIT model can be continued to be used for other groups that interested in fostering research in neuroscience. Moreover, as a CIRCUIT alum I feel confident in its ability to encourage minority group to pursue and prosper through their respective fields.

Tags: CIRCUIT, connectomics
