---
layout: post
title: "Aerodynamic and Aerothermal TPS Instrumentation Reference Guide"
byline: Woollard, Bryce A.
---
Year: 2016

Link to Paper: https://ntrs.nasa.gov/search.jsp?R=20160003103

Summary of Paper: The objective of the paper is to summarize and document past TPS instrumentations designs. It does a comprehensive review of various missions and how they approached collecting data during re entry and what shortcomings were experienced. 

Opportunity: The hypersonic regime of planetary entry is a very severe environment and encounters a lot of uncertainty causing designs to be highly conservative. The opportunity of this paper describes the results of instrumentation on board these missions. This can provide opportunities to make less conservative designs that could hopefully save money and improve research experiments.

Challenge: Multiple times, it appeared that sensors and instrumentation would become fault y or simply not work. For this reason an overestimated amount of sensors are placed on the system. Moreover, because of the faulty systems a lot of the data would be rendered useless.

Action: Design consideration of placement and selection of instrumentation. Varying the information gathered from the experimentation.

Resolution: Overall, the paper resolved that having an assortment of instrumentation options aids greatly in optimizing the system's capability to obtain desired data.

Future/Impact: In the paper a lot of the instrumentation that was reviewed were products of heritage military research. Today there exist modern advancements of sensors, data, and communication systems. Moreover, there is exciting opportunity to implement more "off the shelf products" as instrumentation becomes more mainstream.

Tags: Aerodynamics, TPS, instrumentation.
