---
layout: post
title: "Responsive Small Satellite Mission Operations Using An Enterprise-Class Internet-Based Command and Control Network"
byline: Kitts, Christopher
---
Website: https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/pdf/10.2514/6.2008-7830

Year: 2008

Summary of Paper: This paper reviews the design and performance of the command and control system and detail its use small satellite missions.

Opportunity: Secure internet-based ground data handling system. Achieves low-cost constraints by heavily exploiting commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) components, some of which are modified to achieve the performance requirements demanded by the associated missions.

Challenge: To communicate, satellite commands and telemetry (relayed to the 2.4 GHz channel). The server providing this functionality is the Creare DataTurbine Ring Buffered Network Bus server

Action: Mission control, communication links and internet web-sites. Control Nodes support a variety of functional processing, to include command transmission and telemetry processing, mission-unique analysis, orbit planning and analysis, and mission data reports generation and archival. These control nodes include a desktop with the proper suite of software/commands. 

Resolution: A project that was launched, PharmaSat studies the efficacy of anti-fungal drugs on yeast specimens in a microgravity environment. Future (past) work also NASA/ARC COTSAT team to provide ground segment and mission operations support as well as to assist with the design of on-board communication and command and data handling systems

Future/Impact: The ability to support a wide variety of diverse missions in a low-cost manner is enabled in many ways by well- established techniques. The use of COTS systems (especially low-cost amateur radio components, although these have required some level of re-engineering in order to support performance requirements).

Tags: CubeSat, COTS, communications